Welcome to an exciting February program of JW Broadcapsing.
Brother Robert Lucioni is joining us today.
Robert, what can we look forward to?
Thank you, Brother Heard.
We will get a taste of what it is like to attend an international convention, but also how
much work goes into preparing for one.
And we will meet a man who is away from the truth for a long time.
But one day, a non-witness reminded him of Jehovah's existence.
Also we will see a very interesting music video about life and the perspective of a public
witnessing car.
Unity.
It is often so elusive in political, religious, social, racial, and financial circles.
We love the amazing unity that we experience as a global brotherhood.
No matter the country, one's background or former beliefs, it is amazing that around
the world we have unity of thought.
Though speaking hundreds of languages, there is one singular sound or unified message that
is being preached.
In fact, Romans 10, 17, and 18 says, so faith follows the thing Heard.
In turn, what is heard is through the Word about Christ.
But I ask, they did not fail to hear, did they?
Why, in fact, into all the earth, their sound went out and to the ends of the inhabited
earth, their message?
That is amazing.
Millions believe in exactly the same based on the Word about Christ.
One singular sound goes out, that is unity of belief.
Some may say unity of belief, your brainwash.
Well, we do agree that our thinking has been washed clean from the complicated doctrines
that have evolved since Jesus walked the earth.
However, the unity of mind results from a thorough study of the Scriptures.
It is a matter of learning God's Word and separating His teachings out from the many
doctrines that have been introduced by human thinking.
When a classroom full of students take a math course like algebra, at the end of the class,
no one accuses them of being brainwashed when they all end up united in their understanding,
they simply learn the math accurately and put it to use.
But it is one thing to be united in thinking and yet another to be united in spirit as
a bread of hood.
Going back to a math class, at the end of the course, all are united in thought.
They learned algebra, but that does not mean they all like each other.
They may have petty rivalry or outright prejudice against some of their classmates.
When we learn the truth from God's Word, we become united, not only in thinking, but also
in spirit with our brothers around the world.
Even if we had deep-seated prejudice in our hearts before studying with Jehovah's Witnesses,
it begins to melt away when learning the truth.
Why is that?
You will notice, as we read in Ephesians chapter 4, that godly qualities are learned and
perceived.
The bad traits we might have had before have to be unlearned.
And Jehovah's Holy Spirit helps mold our personality to match more closely the beautiful
qualities mentioned here in Ephesians 4.
The Apostle Paul says, therefore, I, the prisoner in the Lord, appealed to you to walk
worthily of the calling with which you were called, with all humility and myoness and patience
putting up with one another in life, earnestly endeavoring to maintain the oneness of the
spirit in the anointing bond of peace.
One body there is in one spirit, just as you were called to the one hope of your calling,
one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is overall and through
all and in all.
My that is unity, isn't it?
All of those fine quantities reflect the personality of Jesus, perfect.
He was unspoiled by the ingrained hatred and prejudices that we may have been exposed
to.
So is it easy to curb ingrained prejudices?
No.
It is not that easy.
It would be good if it was, but it isn't.
It is a process.
Sometimes we show the right spirit on the outside, but inside we are still struggling
to cultivate that true unity deep in our heart.
Do we have a Bible example that makes clear that this is a process that we must work our
way through?
Yes, there is one.
In Galatians chapter 2.
Here is Seifas, who was usually called Peter, though Jewish by birth had learned from
Jesus not to be partial.
For many years, he has accepted non-Jewish fellow worshippers.
He associated with them.
He ate meals together with them.
But was there still a residue of prejudice within him?
It seems so.
His reactions may have even come as a surprise to Peter himself.
Regulation chapter 2 verses 11 through 14.
And it says, however, when Seifas came to Antioch, I resisted him face to face, because
he was clearly in the wrong.
For before certain men from James arrived, he used to eat with people of the nations.
But when they arrived, he stopped doing this and separated himself, fearing those of the
circumcised class.
The rest of the Jews also joined him in putting on this pretense, so that even Barnabas
was led along with them in their pretense.
But when I saw that they were not walking in step with the truth of the good news, I
said to Seifas, before them all, if you, though you or a Jew, live as the nations do and
not as Jews do, how can you compel people of the nations to live according to Jewish
practice?
What happened to Peter?
Fear man caused his former traits of prejudice to resurface, and it was contagious, affecting
other Jewish men around him.
In fact, the verse said, even Barnabas was led along with them.
Barnabas was a very warm, hearted, generous person.
His name even means son of comfort.
If Peter and Barnabas could succumb to this kind of behavior based on their childhood
training, we need to be very careful.
For a period of time, it may take a conscious effort on our part to maintain unity with
our brothers and sisters of varying cultures or races.
Was Peter able to fully eradicate any residual form of prejudice from his being?
It seems he was.
Turn now to 1 Peter chapter 1.
About 10 years after he shunned the non-Jewish Christians, Peter was inspired to write these
words, verse 22.
Now that you have purified yourselves by your obedience to the truth with unhypocritical
brotherly affection as the result, love one another intensely from the heart.
Learning what is right and then consistently doing what is right is a process.
We learn the truth gradually.
We soon have unity of mind and thinking.
However in time we purify ourselves, how?
The verse said by our obedience to the truth.
And did you notice Peter says with unhypocritical brotherly affection, not the way he acted
ten years or so earlier.
He even said to love one another intensely from the heart, deep inside.
We would have love for all in our brotherhood without even a twinge of prejudice.
Please turn back to Ephesians chapter 4.
How does this process of changing work?
Look at verse 17.
So this is what I say and bear witness to in the Lord that you should no longer go on
walking just as the nations also walk in the futility of their minds.
It makes clear that we need to change our thinking, our minds, and what follows this unity
of thinking, verses 22 through 24.
You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct
and that is being corrupted according to the deceptive, its deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude and should put
on the new personality that was created according to God's will in true righteousness and loyalty.
Our very personality changes because of our new dominant mental attitude.
The beautiful thing is that this process is at work in millions of Jehovah's Witnesses
worldwide.
And even though some of us may still be working on this kind of unity, deep inside, this
love already shows on the outside as we mingle with our brothers from all over the world.
On 133, verse 1 says, it write, how good and how pleasant it is for brothers to dwell
together in unity.
But the spirit of unity in our organization is manifested in many ways.
Robert, I know you have a good example of unity among God's people.
Yes, Brother Heard.
Once we come from a variety of different backgrounds, the organization is making a great effort
to provide spiritual food and as many languages as possible.
So that in spite of our differences, we can all be one united family.
Our brothers and sisters, as speak Navajo, a Native American language, experience that
unity, especially in October of last year.
That was the first time an assembly was held in their mother tongue.
The Navajo Nation is the largest reservation in the U.S.
It's made up of 27,000 square miles.
The reservation itself is bigger than 10 of the states in the U.S.
And also there's almost 300,000 members of the Navajo tribe.
When it comes to the language and the reservation, some people think that the language is a dying
language and that nobody speaks their native tongue anymore.
But really that's a myth because Navajo is spoken by everyone, young and old alike.
In fact, they teach it in school.
The Navajo people are very receptive to learning the truth.
We could see though that there's something missing.
We had excellent teaching in our meetings.
We had wonderful pioneers, need graders that moved out, work in the area.
That something was missing.
And it took us a while to realize we needed to talk to people in their language.
We automatically assume, because they speak English, we can talk to them about how are you
doing their day-to-day life, that they're getting everything, but they're not.
When we started using Navajo in the meetings and using our Navajo Bible and choking it
out, like we can't even do it well, it had more impact on the friends and the most eloquent
English talks we could give.
To acknowledge, the first Navajo baptize was in the 1950s.
It was a sister.
It wasn't until the 90s where more effort was put forth to bring in more of the witnesses
and to the reservation.
In 2011, the governing body gave directions to establish a remote translation office in
Chintley, Arizona.
In March 2013, the first Navajo congregation was established.
And from that point on, we've now have three additional congregations that have been formed.
And we have seven groups.
The last few years, we've assigned a number of special pioneers, their 12 other now,
and two missionaries to the reservation to spread the good news to the Navajo people.
And they were directed to learn the language.
Usually my wife and I get up early and we'll either listen to the Navajo Bible or we'll
listen to a brochure on JW.org in the Navajo language.
And that really gets us prepared for speaking the language and reading the language to our
neighbors.
In our congregation, we have 48 Bible studies and 150% meeting attendance.
With many Bible students attending meetings on a regular basis, they're going to assemblies
and conventions.
Currently we're helping a family of eight learn more about the Bible and they're progressing
well.
One of the relatives told them, you're losing your culture and you're learning a white
man's religion.
And the young daughter spoke up and said, we're not losing our culture.
At the meetings, we're learning to write, read, and speak Navajo.
And we use the Navajo Bible at all of our meetings and we love it.
And so what a joy it is to help people to make changes in their lives and they have a
happier, a fuller life because of what they're learning.
October 25th, 2014 was a very special day, one that'll long be remembered because it
was the first time Jehovah's Witnesses had an assembly all in the Navajo language to
see the great increases taking place.
And then to be at that special occasion, when they all came together at one time, it was
just somewhat overwhelming.
I was smiling dear to year the whole time.
When I got on the stage, I had to be very careful because it was such an emotional time
for me.
And to see the old ones that had struggled for years and years to help the work get off
the ground and the Navajo field was very, very touching and heartwarming.
It really is an experience I will never forget in my life.
And so many different tribes also came that spoke their native tongues.
In fact, we had 26 total Native American tribes and they came from three countries, Canada,
US, and Mexico.
And many of them drove hours.
We heard of one group that drove 22 hours in order to attend this special occasion.
Being here with the brothers and just an interchange of encouragement makes it really special
for me.
It's so encouraging to be with other people that are learning or know Navajo and see them
get to know Jehovah more.
I almost cried when I heard the first talk, when it was over, it was just beautiful.
It's wonderful.
You get to see what Jehovah's Holy Spirit, when it directs you in the right place, what
it can accomplish.
All I could say to Jehovah is thank you, Jehovah, for letting me be here.
I feel so happy how much Jehovah has taken an interest in all his people, but today
the native people.
This is the first time these Navajo brothers and sisters were able to hear the entire
program in their own language and to hear the Bible read in their language.
They've struggled for many years in the reservation and just off the reservation because they
had to attend English meetings and they did wonderful Jehovah bless their beautiful efforts
and at this assembly, it was a paraded touch their hearts.
But the first time ever in my life, I didn't have to translate from English and to be able
to hear it and go straight here.
It doesn't stop here and goes here.
I think the most exciting to me was looking at Psalm 684, Bohemini, Jehovah, yeah, think
about that name.
It's amazing, you know, who the creator is.
The joy that I feel because Jehovah is like talking to me in Navajo and it hits here.
I appreciate our Navajo friends so much because they stuck with Jehovah all that time even
though they weren't understanding everything to form a love for Jehovah without a full understanding.
That's an amazing thing.
Our Navajo friends have been building a strong faith on crumbs and now they're getting
fed spiritually.
The good news brochure, the Jehovah's Wheel brochure, this is the richest spiritual food
the Navajo friends have ever had in their life.
They've sat through every watchtower study, but they're hearing something in their language
that's touching them.
I always imagined a new system, entered A, I saw it, and so it's really special, very special.
I see this as a small step and Jehovah's organization soon, we're going to all learn one
language and that language is left.
I feel like Jehovah reads out and hugged the Navajo people.
That's what it was like, like he embraced them and said, I love you.
We pray Jehovah's continued blessing upon all the effort that's being put into preaching
the good news to people and all nations, tribes and tongues, including the Navajo feel.
We are so happy for our brothers and sisters in the Navajo feel.
It is evident that Jehovah bless their assembly and isn't it true that assemblies and conventions
strengthen all of us as a people.
Last year, international conventions were arranged all over the world.
And if you had the opportunity to attend one, I am sure you noticed the emphasis that was
put on showing hospitality to the foreign delegates.
Our team visited some of the international conventions and we could tell the local brothers
and sisters had worked very hard to make everyone feel welcome.
We have 2500 delegates coming in for us.
We want to give them our absolute best.
What we want them to feel is the love of the true brotherhood.
The commission was to make it a life-changing experience in order to do that.
We thought we had to put together more than just come and have some dinner with us.
Overwhelming.
I don't know how to express how I feel.
We had, first of all, come up and create the acts.
So I went in the room for two days, cried and prayed.
But this is where the trust that Johova is directing this through his organization has
helped us.
There was so much more involved in showing hospitality to our delegates than we originally
thought.
We have an original authentic 1892 Chuck Wagon, real Texas Cowboys, real horse trainers,
open lessons and Texas long horns.
We're making buttermilk biscuits just like they did on the trail in a Dutch oven and
colds.
And we have four different casts that we're using, each somewhere in the range of 80, 90 per
cast.
Three different locations we're going to be performing at.
The spans over four days.
The evening programs include providing some food to the friends that are here, some spiritual
entertainment with music, some interviews, some videos.
We haven't had field service part of our conventions as in the past.
However, it's so apparent to Johova's behind us.
The example set by the slave, it's so evident this should be done.
They're facing similar challenges in the ministry, but they're still working hard while dealing
with the challenges, hearing that was very encouraging and it gave me the renewed motivation
to keep preaching with zeal.
We also need to volunteer to come to the assembly hall and greet the delegates as they came
in off the buses.
At first I wasn't sure why there were many people outside when I saw them from the bus.
When I found out that they were there to welcome us, it put me to tears.
When we found out that the tours were coming to the assembly hall, we knew that we were
going to have an extra special blessing.
We had well over 3,600 volunteers and probably more like 5,000 that were willing to help.
We contacted a little bit over 200 congregations to participate in these activities.
We're from Cheyenne, Wyoming, about 850 miles away.
We started them out two or three weeks ago, getting all the wagons ready, and it took
a couple of days to get here.
One of the things I had to do was ask permission on my job, as for a week off in order to be here.
I prayed a lot to Johova and through him they gave me permission and I was able to be here.
I'm so energized and pumped and I really just see us walking into the new world and feeling
all of this every day.
My job has been to come up with drawings and paintings of note cards of things that are
indigenous to Washington.
I had the privilege of designing the logo that went on to give back for the International
Prevention.
We're going to sing for the demi-gates.
I'm singing for the dedicons because I want to make God happy in the dedicons too.
The singing at the airport is what's touching.
To see them waiting for us, it rides at the night because we arrive around 10 pm.
I think that they'll be happy to see all of us welcoming them, the things that we're
preparing for them, something to take back with them to remember this opportunity that
they had.
This part, the top part, the large J.W. was actually from the messenger, which was back
in 1931, the International Convention in Columbus, Ohio.
As you see with all the brothers and sisters, everyone wanting to contribute, everyone
wanting to have a part, everyone wanting to be cold, everyone wanting to participate
in whatever way they can.
Welcome to Seattle.
We're just seeing it being used and enjoyed by the dedicons.
It was a great feeling.
It was a little bit tired from the flight, but when you saw the smiles and the cheers and
the big banners and all the gifts, it was just like, oh my goodness.
You felt it.
You felt it left straight away.
It was just love.
We don't know where they're from.
We don't know their names, but they just smile and wave and seeing that unity.
I mean, it's genuine love and you almost want to just cry.
You want them to know that they have brothers here that will support them, who love them,
and are willing to do whatever we can to make them enjoy their stay here.
Yes.
We just want them to feel like our arms have been around them the whole time they've
been here.
It really shows that your hope is behind the work, but it also shows the loving brotherhood,
because it's so evident by what you see with all the happy faces, the zeal, the enthusiasm,
everything that is being spent is all so that we can praise your hope, but also to welcome
his sheep, the delegates coming from all the different parts of the world.
I hope, two, three thousand years from now, somebody walks up to me and goes, I remember
you.
You were at the cowboy deal in Texas.
That to me would be fantastic.
I know cowboys aren't supposed to cry, but trust us, we do what it comes to this.
I'm so happy.
It moves me to tears.
They came here to let us sing and they watched us, so they would take our song with them.
We wanted delegates to be happy.
I am confident all the delegates were very happy and doesn't make us happy to see how much
time and effort our brothers and sisters devoted to welcoming the visitors.
But before thousands of delegates can be invited to a large convention, there is a significant
amount of work that needs to take place.
We joined some of the volunteers behind the scenes.
About a year and a half ago the branch called and invited me to help out with the International
Conventions.
February of 2013, we were invited to work in Rooming and it was confidential.
We couldn't even tell our wives what we were doing.
Came from North Little Rock, Arkansas, where it was a Buckingham, Pennsylvania, the assembly hall
here, to construct these stages.
We're going to go to each of the conventions and assist the brothers to put these together
on the fields there.
I serve on the hospitality committee.
I've been involved in this project for over a year now.
An event of this size takes a lot of organization.
And we haven't had a convention in Seattle really for decades.
So it meant educating the friends so that they are enthused as we are to support the effort.
When we all first got the assignment, we didn't know what we had in front of us, which might
have been a blessing at the time, but we knew that Jehovah would step in.
Our whole life revolves around theocratic service.
We always look for the opportunities to serve Jehovah and our brothers, no matter what
it is really.
It was a bit overwhelming, to say the least.
The initial request was to have 500 people here every single day.
All the cargations were given questionnaires, the friends to fill out.
We had over 3,000 individuals from the Seattle area fill those out.
You know, we pray to Jehovah to always be used.
We have a willing spirit and we want to be used in any capacity that we can.
And to be asked to be here, to take part in this is a great privilege.
Why did I want to be part of this?
Well, the question to me should be why not be part of it.
I mean, it's exciting, it's for Jehovah, he's people.
So there is no way I would have let that pass.
What I do, I serve Jehovah and anything Jehovah asks, we try to do.
Out of the group that we've asked to assist and all these different trades, there's quite
a few trades represented, none of them said they were unavailable or could not make room
for it.
So the volunteer spirit here has been just incredible.
The letter we sent out that described the activities, let them clearly know that all
they be doing is coming here, greeting the friends and leaving.
They be here maybe an hour and that didn't deter a single person.
I enjoy volunteering because it allows me an opportunity to show my appreciation to the
organization, to Jehovah, it gives me opportunities to demonstrate my love for the brotherhood.
I do this professionally for my business and so I just decided to make it a priority
and this Jehovah was my top client.
I really wanted the opportunity to come and sing for people that came from Portugal and
Spain to make them happy.
Many times I thought, I just don't know how this is going to work.
We didn't know whether we would have enough, even for one cast for one evening program
and we had 14 to put on and for cast we need to get each cast over 100 acts.
Every couple of months we would have a video conference with the branch which is really
nice to see those brothers face to face, get to know them.
The assignment of this magnitude can be physically draining because you're busy or worried.
They took the time to give us some of their time, their attention to provide us with the
direction that we needed.
We would often times ask a lot of questions, they didn't have the answers which made us
feel better because they had to go to maybe their oversight, to the teaching committee,
to the branch committee to find some of the answers.
So we all felt we were kind of in it together, trying to make this work together.
In those times of discouragement, it never failed that an email would show up or a card
thanking myself and my family for what we're doing and the other brothers and always an
expression of their thoughts and prayers on our behalf.
Only that just energize you, you're ready to go again.
The friends responded admirably, it was amazing.
The first day we had 500, we hit that that quota.
So it was great to see the entire parking lot full with smiling faces and signs and people
screaming and yelling for the delegates.
It was a wonderful site.
It's completely Jehovah's Hand, it's pretty cool.
I am serving as one of the 800 volunteers here.
I'm serving as a waitress.
I came here today to welcome my brothers and sisters from Russia, from just all different
parts of the world.
I don't know them, but I know I love them.
They're my brothers and I tell you what, when I went to their countries as a kid, they
showed me the same love and so I'm happy to give it back to them.
We've spent a lot of hours in this, I know myself, I've spent 180 in March and I'm about
120 this month, but still getting out in the ministry.
There was one brother who asked my age, he was from Japan and he said his mother had died.
He said you will be my mother and that was just so dear to me and I just hugged him and
we hugged each other.
Friends are excited, they're willing to volunteer, they're donating their time, the resources,
everything.
The benefit is it invigorates some spiritually and it invigorates them to do more in Jehovah's
Service.
Even though we were behind the scenes in doing the work and though some I think it's a
thankless job, just knowing that we did all for Jehovah and our brothers and how they
were able to enjoy it makes it whole worth it.
Volunteering to be a greeter has really strengthened my faith as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
We're doing this for our brothers and sisters but I think we're getting way more out of it
than we feel like they're going to get.
100% I would do it again.
Without a doubt, if we were asked tomorrow to start another project on this stuff, we
would start at no problem.
It makes that it's been a life-changing experience.
I just enjoyed it, thank you.
Have you ever asked yourself what is really the difference between an international convention
and a special convention?
Are they both the same but just with a different name?
No.
There are actually some fundamental differences.
The international conventions are usually scheduled every four or five years where a special
conventions are held yearly as long as no international convention is scheduled.
Also international conventions are generally held in large venues with a minimum of 20,000
attendees.
Special conventions are often held in smaller size venues, usually including fewer than
12,000 on-site attendees, although additional sites may be tied in as well.
There is a difference in the number of foreign delegates as well.
Twice as many foreign delegates are invited to attend international conventions as compared
to special conventions.
An international conventions also provide an opportunity for the branch to invite those
in foreign service, including our missionaries, to return home for a visit.
Using funds contributed by the Worldwide Brotherhood.
One joyous aspect of conventions is meeting our brothers and sisters from around the world,
but the reason we can enjoy that so much is because of what brother heard spoke to us
about, unity, unity from the heart that melts away prejudice.
In this morning's Worship program from Bethel, brother David Splein highlighted some Bible
principles that can help us to maintain our unity.
We can say that the theme of the Book of Romans is really about unity.
It's a marvelous example of how to break down barriers, how to break down prejudice.
Now you'll recall that there was bad blood in the Christian congregation between the Jews
and the Romans.
Some of the Jews thought they were better than anyone else because of circumcision and
because of their religious background.
And Paul doesn't just say to the Jews and the Romans, well, you know you're all equal
in God's sight.
He goes further.
And his argument is masterful.
Let's turn to Romans 2, 28 and 29, and see how Paul handles this very thorny problem.
Verse chapter 2, verses 28 and 29, for he is not a Jew who is one on the outside, nor
is circumcision something on the outside on the flesh, but he is a Jew who is one on the
inside, and his circumcision is that of the heart by spirit and not by a written code.
That person's praise comes from God, not from people.
Now what's Paul's argument?
Paul is saying you're all of the anointed, so you are all Jews.
You are all spiritual Israelites, and what's more, you are all circumcised.
And that includes you sisters, he says, because you're of the anointed and you have been
circumcised in the heart by Holy Spirit.
So then that gives a weight to what Paul had written to the Galatians when he said there
is neither male nor female, there is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor
Friedman.
So he is completely breaking down the barriers by saying you are all one in Jesus Christ.
Now some of the verses that we love to quote in the book of Romans actually promote the
idea of unity, the fact that there is no distinction between one race and another.
For example, Romans 3.23 all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God.
Romans 5.12 through one man, our common ancestor Adam, sin, anointed of the world, and death
through sin.
Well, why was Paul so insistent on the need for unity?
Perhaps he didn't know at the time, but Jehovah knew.
Paul wrote his letter in 56 CE.
Now what was the situation in Rome at the time?
The emperor Claudius, the one who had expelled all the Jews from Rome, had died, and a new
emperor, a very promising one, had taken the throne.
Nero.
Now it may seem strange to say that Nero was a very promising emperor, but historians
tell us that during the first five years of his reign, Nero was a very good emperor.
In fact, the Roman historian, contemporary historian, Gaeus Sutonius, had this to say,
Nero started off with a parade of virtue.
He never missed an opportunity of being generous or merciful.
If he could not abolish some of the heavier taxes, he lowered them.
They have asked to sign a death warrant for a convicted felon.
He would sigh, ah, how I wish I had never learned to write.
Once when the senate passed a vote of thanks to him, he answered, wait until I deserve them.
And the fact is that Nero was popular with the poor right up to his death.
Now, incidentally, it would have been during that five-year period that the Apostle Paul
told Philemon that he was optimistic of being released when he appeared before Nero.
It appears that Paul thought that Nero would have been fair.
And Nero did have a background in law.
Nero had actually fought cases, argued cases before the courts in his youth.
So what's the point?
Although in private, Nero was debonged in public, he was very good, he was a solid emperor,
and the Christians may have thought that they were going to enter into a period of peace.
Here is a man who was fair.
Here is a man who was just.
Here is a man who doesn't like putting people to death.
What a mistake that would have been.
Now in his letter, Paul sends greetings to more than 26 men and women in Rome.
And in one way, it makes us sad to read the list, Mary, Andronicus, Tunis, Urbinaus,
Rufus.
Knowing as we do that eight years later, many of them would be dead, mulled to death by
wild dogs or burned alive in Nero's gardens.
Here makes Paul's words recorded at Romans 817 almost chilling to read, where Paul says
provided that we suffer together so that we may be glorified together.
Those Christians in Rome were going to suffer together.
And Paul, right along with them in Rome, about a year after the rest of them, and wouldn't
have been a pity if those Christians were united only in death but never in life.
They needed to learn to love one another so that when faced with death, someone didn't
say, I really don't know if this is the truth because there's a lack of love in the congregation.
Well who have applied Paul's counsel today?
The Catholic Church?
Being World War II, in the city of Rome, there were Jews, and there were Romans.
How did the Romans treat the Jews?
The Vatican and Pius, Italian Catholics, looked silently by, while 7,500 Jews were hauled
off to the concentration camps in Auschwitz.
They never said a word, and few returned alive.
Now what a contrast with Jehovah's people who have risked their lives on behalf of fellow
believers in many countries, no matter what their race, no matter what their nationality,
doesn't make you feel good to belong to an organization where there truly are no foreigners.
So it is important for us to focus on our unity in the Christian congregation.
It is impossible for us to succeed if we do not have unity at home.
What can we do to make our home a safe and peaceful haven?
Just look at some steps that can help us in the right direction.
Anger, hurtful words, devastating effects.
The Bible says, a mild answer turns away rage, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
The way out of a crisis is only found by learning to speak openly with one another.
In a mild, gentle way, it takes time and patience.
Honestly apologizing also helps to build bridges.
The insight of a man certainly slows down his anger says the Bible.
Insight means understanding, to have empathy for my partner.
How can I understand the feelings behind their reaction?
How were my words understood?
Speaking so as not to hurt one another's feelings will help.
When was everything okay between us?
What were the things that made us happy?
Can we revive this love again?
New direction?
Brother Forrest James from the State of Oregon in the United States was raised believing
in traditional Native American beliefs.
He later became one of Jehovah's Witnesses, but left the truth immediately thereafter.
What helped him regain his relationship with Jehovah after being an actor for 16 years?
Our team visited him to find out.
I was raised on the Tullawai Indian Reservation, and I was baptized when I was 12 years old.
Although I was baptized at a young age, those that were around me, doing the exact opposite
of what I was taught.
But what I heard, what I saw, you know, was not, didn't match up.
Their actions, well, that destroyed my world, destroyed everything, destroyed my family,
and in time I grew very prejudiced against all the organized religion, Jehovah's Witnesses
included.
I was adopted by the film and entertainment industry as a teenager.
I would say to myself with each movie or billboard, that if I could just get this next
one, I would be satisfied.
And that's when I became an alcoholic.
Later on I'd a prayer ceremony with a medicine man.
He said to Jehovah, I approached him about it afterwards, but indignantly, and said,
yeah, we don't believe in the Bible, it's got nothing to offer.
And he said, well, how do you know?
Have you read it?
My brother invited me to a Bible study, and before I went in, I'd said a prayer and
was in tears, asking that I not judge these people.
Because at this point, I believed the United Nations would solve mankind's problems.
Incidentally, the meeting that night was based on 2 Corinthians 1114, which points out
that Satan disguises himself as an angel of light.
In that one hour, deeply interesting things were over time.
So for the first time in 15 years I decided to attend a convention, and it was actually
my former tribal chief who became a witness that gave me a ride.
One of my biggest concerns was that I would have to completely give up my culture to serve
Jehovah.
And on the right there, he helped me to see that I didn't have to.
After studying with six different elders, I realized that it's not one person that
changes everybody, but everybody that changes one person.
Now there are so many blessings.
I'm no longer prejudiced.
I have a loving wife.
I get to teach my kids about Jehovah, enjoy a building of association, and I love the
full-time ministry, especially the opportunity to share with other natives what I was so
freely given.
I wouldn't trade the life that Jehovah has given me for anything.
Brother James is now in his third year of pioneering and was recently appointed as a ministerial
servant in his congregation.
It isn't true that there are no circumstances too complicated for Jehovah to help us.
Why, in Brother James' case, it was a non-witness medicine man that reminded him of Jehovah's
existence.
But think back for a moment on how Jehovah supported his organization in ancient times.
One example is Bezalow.
Do you remember him?
Jehovah appointed him to make furnishings for the tabernacle.
That's quite a responsibility.
But what experience did Bezalow have?
His last job was making bricks in Egypt.
While it is possible he had some other skills, how would he accomplish something as grand
as the tabernacle?
Exodus chapter 35 teaches us that it was Jehovah that gave Bezalow the wisdom and the understanding
to do the work.
Jehovah's earthly organization today faces similar challenges.
The brothers that took the lead in setting up our first primary had no prior experience.
And the same applies to brothers that produced our very first video.
You will enjoy this archive interview with Brother Lyman Swingle, who was part of that
very first video team.
Brother Swingle was later appointed as a member of the governing body until he finished
his earthly course in 2001.
The headquarters of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society, a center of new world action.
We were given instructions while finding out make a film of world headquarters and what
we do here and show it in film.
Oh, I thought it was a great idea myself because I was interested in photography.
Bethel means the house of God.
How many people would like to visit here and don't have the opportunity and let them see
what the new world society is in action, because I think a tour through this place will
give them the concept of the whole organization.
They appointed a team of three to write a script.
So they put this script together.
Just across the East River from all this.
There was a brother in Hollywood that was connected with the film industry.
He was sort of an amateur photographer.
And he was around them all the time and knew their techniques.
It's like many other things the society does.
They don't have professionals that do it.
No, mostly they're brought in here and they learn.
Maybe they have a brother like this brother that came here that knew some of the basics.
We went over to New York and rented the lights and many of the equipment that was necessary.
All he did is bring brought his camera here.
At his desk, the society's president, Brother Norr, he thought, well, be best to start
with a president's office and work down through copy, follow the copy through its various
processes.
We all work together for one purpose, one does one thing, someone does something else,
someone working the treasure's office, some have to be president, some have to be dishwashers,
serve food.
So it's like the organs in the body, Paul said, you know, the hand can't say to the foot
I have no need of you, we all need everyone.
Here is the publication of the New World Society.
Jehovah has fed us through its pages and he will continue to do so.
After they had shot it, well, then it had run longer taking it than they expected and
it got into the time of convention and the brother says, oh, he says, why don't we take
the convention and put it on here too?
And so, well, why don't we do it in color?
Color, those days was really something and that even gave the film a much bigger boost
when they've been looking black and white and then suddenly they get a burst of color
for the convention.
They had the trailer camp where everybody camped out there and Yankee Stadium and all of
that in color.
Oh, that really made a real climax to that picture because you weren't used to seeing color
except in the big theaters.
In the evening, the students told of life a gillian and entertained with a pleasant program
of songs from their native lands.
There were some very trying moments wondering whether it's ever going to be completed because
after we shot it, the brother that shot it was going to edit it too.
But something came up in his life, he couldn't do it.
Now we're stuck, what are we going to do?
So then the decision is, well, let's do it ourselves.
We'd never done it before, but we'll tackle it and see what we can do.
And we've got a lab over in New York that we made a deal with them.
Look, we'll give you the business to duplicate these if you will take somebody over there
and show them how to edit this thing.
So for a few weeks I went over there.
It's like any project here, every job here for the average Bethelite that comes in, he
doesn't know anything about running a press or washing dishes or anything else.
We teach him.
So that was just another job you learn how to do it.
Amazing things, these.
But it is Jehovah's spirit that makes them possible.
It is his work, not man's.
After we did the original, while we started editing it, we saw there were some gaps in
the film, not smooth dissolves from one department to another.
And so the brother had gone away, so we rented a camera again on lights and so on and came
back and did it all on our own.
The brothers here filled in some gaps so we could go from some scene to another scene
real smooth like.
One of those shows how do you get the paper from the docks up to the press room?
So we had a scene where they're rolling the paper off the truck right into the camera.
And then the next scene shows a roll of paper being rolled on to the press and that made
a nice transition from the docks where the paper comes into the press room.
And there were some others like that that we filled in later.
It was a compliment to Jehovah's people putting out something like that back in those days.
But it illustrates that you don't have to go off to college and get a high education
to do something if Jehovah's spirit is upon it and blesses the project.
Many people have benefited from it and it often, in my mind, throws back to what the
brothers did when they made the photodrama creation.
They too were amateurs at it but my goodness, look at the final product.
But this one here was really the only film I think the society made where they planned
out a script, wrote the script and then followed through and shooting it and editing it and
producing it themselves.
It's the same way today when the society undertakes something.
They strike out in open space and start flying and they never flew before but maybe they
have a few crash landings along the way but they pick themselves up and get back up flying
again.
The new world society is indeed in action.
I think it's another example of how the society has used technology in various features
to further the advertising of the kingdom all down through the years.
The new world society in action certainly had a unifying effect.
By means of that video, brothers and sisters around the world could see where and how our
literature was produced at the time.
And if you would like to see the video in its entirety, you can find it in the movies
category on video on demand.
The video is entitled The New World Society in Action.
Have you served Jehovah for many years but now find yourself more limited as your health
declines?
That can be so discouraging.
Please be assured although you are no longer able to do the same things you did in the past,
you still have a very important role in Jehovah's service.
Please pay attention to the next video which highlights how one sister used her experience
to help those in the congregation.
I never imagined I would be this old in this system of things.
Time goes by so fast.
I'm on the infirm pioneer list but it just doesn't feel like enough.
It seems like yesterday that I had so much youthful energy.
I look around and I see the younger ones in the hall.
The congregation is very loving but I just don't feel I have much to give anymore.
Others could notice I was feeling down.
I look at the beauty of our young ones.
What privileges in Jehovah's service await them?
How I remember the days of my youth?
For decades I enjoyed the full time service so much has changed.
In my heart I still feel young.
But my body wars against me.
I often reminisce about the old days so many happy memories in Jehovah's service.
One of the elders came by with his wife to encourage me.
He shared Hebrews 6-10 which reads,
For God is not unrighteous so as to forget your work and the love you showed for his name.
They reminded me how much Jehovah appreciates whatever I can do now.
They both had struggled with similar feelings.
We had such a lovely time.
I was encouraged to meditate on the account of the needy widow.
And to imagine the look on Jesus' face when he saw her,
the needy widow gave all that she could out of her want.
But Jesus and Jehovah loved her very much.
I know they love me too.
I can still do so much to encourage others.
The young ones especially need our help.
I decided to reach out and encourage them.
Helping our young ones reach out to serve Jehovah.
Fills me with such joy.
I have been able to encourage others to enjoy and start their life
of full-time service. How grateful I am to Jehovah.
Have you had the opportunity to enjoy public witnessing in your territory
using a literature display card?
We have heard many good experiences from this form of the ministry.
But in this next segment, a music video
find out what a day in service is like from the perspective of the card.
This is a big tune which gives that little cart a big heart.
This is entitled If You Could See What I Say.
I'm just a cart made up of bits and pieces,
a frame, a handle, and some wheels.
But I'm a cart that helps to give a witness.
What is that like? Let me tell you how it feels.
If you could see, if you could visit
all the places that I go,
if you could see the people there
and get a glimpse of all the faces that I get to know.
When they see things they've never had a chance to see.
That's when you'll see I've got books and I've got tracks.
I take the kingdom message every when you buy
I'm designed to catch their eye. Talk about a unique perspective.
Brothers and sisters, it has been a pleasure having you with us this past hour.
And we would like to take this opportunity to commend every one of you
for displaying unity in all aspects of your life.
By doing so, we actually glorify God. Why?
Because unity identifies true worship.
Micah 212 says,
In unity, I shall set them like a flock in the pin.
Yes, our unity is a treasure worth protecting.
It brings joy to all those who share in it.
That's why the Apostle Paul encouraged the Ephesians
in chapter 4 and verse 3,
earnestly endeavor to observe the oneness of the spirit.
It takes effort to have unity in belief and without prejudice.
To conclude our program, we would like to share some greetings from our brothers
and sisters in the Zambeziah province in Mozambique.
Most of the publishers you see are from the Malumbu Central Congregation,
which is a three and a half hour journey on dirt roads from the nearest big town.
These publishers had just returned from an isolated group
that they support about 40 minutes away.
That group only has three publishers.
It is our privilege to be united with them in serving Jehovah.
Indeed it is. This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York.